
We end in a big way (or rather in a big and naked way): Michelangelo's David, possibly the most famous sculpture in the world, makes an appearance in Parque Europa in all its marble splendor (well, here it will be resin or whatever, but it looks like Carrara marble). Let no one blush! It is pure Renaissance beauty, perfect anatomy carved by the genius Michelangelo between 1501 and 1504. In Florence he attracts crowds who queue to see him... especially for his artistic eyes, of course.

The David represents the biblical teenage king David just before facing Goliath. Not a weak child: Michelangelo gave us a model of a sixteenth-century gymnasium: just over five meters tall, a handsome guy, marked muscles, concentrated gaze, a sling on his shoulder and a stone in his hand. And yes, just as he came into the world, because in classical and Renaissance art there were plenty of clothes for heroes. Result: a masterpiece where every vein, every curl of hair, seems to come to life in the marble.

Now, in Parque Europa I suppose they have calibrated the height well so that it is not too intimidating. But let's hope that they haven't put a fig leaf or censorship on it, that a decent reproduction must be shown as is (we are adults... or well, children see it as if it were a human Ken, no problem). In any case, the David has survived centuries showing its parts with dignity, we are not going to be scandalized now.

Morbid Curiosity: Things have happened to the original David. His arm was broken in a riot in 1527 (it was restored), and in 1991 a disturbed man damaged his foot with a hammer (sacrilege!). They always fix it, of course. Here in the park, if someone rips something off, security will take action, I imagine. Don't try to reproduce Bart Simpson's feat of putting underpants on him, eh?

The beautiful thing is to see the expression on the face: that frown, the tension before the battle. And the contrapposto pose (support on one leg, the other relaxed), which gives it that natural air. Michelangelo left, come on. He said "leave me the best piece of marble so I can mess it up for you" and boy did I mess it up: carved perfection.

You can have fun comparing: is David right-handed or left-handed? He has the slingshot in the left and the stone in the right, that is, ambidextrous fighting. And the most talked about: his virile member, which to some seems small for that great body. Don't worry, there are theories that the cold, the fear before fighting, the aesthetic canon... It doesn't matter, sculpture is not about that, but we already know that people look where they look.

In Parque Europa, standing in front of David is like having your mini (or maxi) open-air museum. Take a selfie looking at him from below with a "he's huge!" face, meme option. Or imitate their pose (if you're fit, go for it; if not, the comparison can be... ahem, fun).

The important thing: appreciate that Europe is the cradle of sublime art. And after touring castles, bridges and fountains, you end up with a stone uncle who symbolizes ideal human beauty. Take now final. As if to say: "This is Europe, beauty and culture carved to a whim."

David says goodbye to Parque Europa (if it's the last one on the list) with that defiant look that seems to say: "Come back soon, or I'll throw a stone at you." Nah, he's a good kid. Come back whenever you want to review our continental jewels without leaving Madrid. Meanwhile, David will continue to watch with his frown... perhaps waiting in case Goliath appears among the trees in the park. Thank you for traveling around Europe in one day, bon voyage, arrivederci, auf wiedersehen, goodbye!
