Wow! Here we have an impressive work of art: Michelangelo's David. It is a very famous statue that usually lives in Florence, Italy, in a museum called the Accademia Gallery. In Parque Europa they have brought a reproduction so that we can appreciate it.
Who is David? It is the same David from the biblical story of David and Goliath. David was a young shepherd who, with the help of a sling and a stone, defeated the giant Goliath against all odds. Michelangelo, a brilliant Renaissance artist, sculpted this figure between 1501 and 1504. He made it from a huge block of white marble that other sculptors had discarded (for having imperfections). He managed to remove from there a statue more than five meters high (just over five meters). Giant! I assume the replica here is life-size or something close.
David is represented naked, like the heroes of classical antiquity (Michelangelo was inspired by Greek art). He is not wearing clothes because that is how the perfection of the young human body is seen. He looks like an athlete: marked muscles but not exaggerated. He is standing in a relaxed pose called contrapposto: he supports his weight on one leg, the other is slightly bent; one shoulder drops more, the head turns slightly. That posture gives it naturalness.
He has a frown and a fixed gaze, with a wrinkled brow. What will he be looking at? We interpret that he is just before facing Goliath, concentrated, evaluating his rival. In his right hand (which hangs next to his leg) he holds a stone. In his left hand, over his shoulder, the coiled slingshot. He wears no sword or armor; He won with ingenuity and aim, not with brute force.
Why is this statue so famous? Because Michelangelo achieved an incredible level of detail and beauty. If you look closely (you can see it in the original, in the replica it depends on the quality), you can notice the veins in the arms and hands, the texture of the curly hair, the emotional expression on the face, the tendons in the foot... All on a block of stone. And that was five hundred years ago, without modern technology!
Here in the replica, you may not see every vein, but you do see the general shape. You will be struck by its size and that it is naked without any censorship (well, sometimes they put a little metal vine leaf on the copies out of modesty, but I hope not, so that it is faithful to the original). Remember, it's art, there's no shame in it. Human bodies are naturally like this and are studied and represented in art.
For children, it may be curious because we are not used to large-scale naked statues. But it can be explained that at that time it was normal for biblical characters or heroes, showing strength and purity (David was pure of heart, etc.).
An observation game: do you see something resting on his right leg? In the original, there is like a tree trunk carved behind that leg, which serves to give stability to the sculpture (because it is so tall that it needs support). See if they have put it in the replica.
Also look at the proportion: the head and hands may seem a little big compared to the body. It is not a mistake: Michelangelo made them slightly larger because the statue was going to be placed high, and thus from below they would look proportionate. Artist trick!
So that children understand who Michelangelo was: an Italian artist who also painted the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel in the Vatican, was an architect, and lived about five hundred years ago. He was a genius. He did David when he was about twenty-six years old, imagine.
You can take a photo imitating David's pose (well, with clothes please): you put the weight on one leg, serious hero face, one hand on the shoulder as if holding an imaginary sling, the other on the hip or near the thigh. It sure looks cool!
The David is a symbol of the city of Florence, it represents the defense of freedom against larger enemies (like Florence, being small, defended itself against larger states). Here in the park, finishing the tour, it can symbolize the victory of having "seen all of Europe" in one day, hehe.
I hope it impressed you. It's not every day you can see Michelangelo's David, even a copy. Maybe it makes you want to draw it, or to know more.
