
Hello little sea explorers! Today we are going to meet the Little Mermaid of Copenhagen, a very special statue that comes from Denmark, a country in northern Europe.

Do you know what a mermaid is? It is a magical creature that is half fish and half person. She has the tail of a fish but the body of a girl. Just like in fairy tales!

The Little Mermaid of Copenhagen is a bronze statue that sits on a rock by the sea. She is tiny, only a little over one meter tall (like a six-year-old child), but she is very famous all over the world. Millions of people go to see it every year!

Do you know who made it? A sculptor named Edvard Eriksen in 1913, more than a hundred years ago. It was inspired by a very beautiful story by Hans Christian Andersen, a Danish writer who wrote many famous stories such as "The Ugly Duckling" or "The Princess and the Pea".

The story of the Little Mermaid is very sad but beautiful. It tells about a mermaid who falls in love with a human prince and wants to be human to be with him. It is a story about love and sacrifices.

The statue is made of bronze, which is a metal that turns green over time (like old coins). She is sitting on a rock looking out to sea, as if she were waiting for someone. His face is very sweet and sad at the same time.

Do you know a curious thing? The Little Mermaid has had many adventures. Sometimes they have painted it in colors, other times they have cut off its head (poor thing!), and they have even pushed it into the water. But they have always fixed it because it is very important to the Danes.

In Copenhagen, the Little Mermaid is like the city's mascot. Everyone loves her and cares for her. It is a symbol of Denmark and appears on many postcards and souvenirs.

Would you like to make a wish while looking at the Little Mermaid? They say that if you look at her with affection, your wish may come true. It's magical!

The Little Mermaid teaches us that sometimes the little things can be very important. And it also reminds us that stories can come true, even if it is in the form of a statue!

So enjoy looking at this little mermaid. Maybe it will inspire you to read more Andersen stories or dream of adventures under the sea. Imagination has no limits!
