
Classical art or mythological triple striptease? That is the question when coming face to face with Las Tres Gracias as soon as you enter Parque Europa. Three naked ladies, hugging each other very affectionately, welcoming us to the park... Don't worry: it's not that there was a crazy party in Torrejón last night, this is culture! Oh really. Although it may not seem like it, these three naked girls are the protagonists of one of the most famous scenes in European art and have been like this, just as you see them, for centuries. So go ahead, you can look without fear (and take out the camera): when nudity comes from mythology, it is called ideal beauty. Nobody is scandalized here; Well, maybe some granny will cross herself, but not much.

Let's go in parts: who are these three and why are they posing as if they were a group of best friends taking a selfie without clothes? In Greek mythology they are known as the Three Graces (or Charites). They were daughters of the almighty Zeus (who had offspring to give and take, but they turned out quite nice) and the nymph Eurynome. Their names seem like they were taken from a Miss Olympus contest: Aglae, Euphrosyne and Talía. What don't sound familiar to you? Normally, they didn't have Instagram or their own reality show. But in ancient times they were the influencers of joy and beauty. To avoid confusion, here is his quick profile:

Aglae (perhaps the one on the left): name means "Shining." It represents splendor, radiant beauty. Come on, the brilliant diva of the group, that friend who lights up the party just by appearing.

Euphrosyne (the one in the middle, the one with her back turned): her name means "Joy" or "Good cheer." He personifies good vibes and joviality. She was the one who set the mood at the Olympus banquets: jokes, dances and laughter guaranteed with her.

Talía (the one on the right): name that means "Flowering" or "Abundance". It symbolizes prosperity and youthful beauty. We could say that she made sure that there was no shortage of food or fun at the divine parties, the natural organizer of the trio.

And what did these three do in their free time? Well, according to mythology, they were in charge of presiding over the banquets and celebrations on Olympus. That is, the patron goddesses of the good life: their mission was to please the gods and their guests with their charm, their dances and their eternal friendliness. They were like Zeus's public relations: if there was a heavenly party, they went there to distribute grace, beauty and good humor. They always walked in the company of Aphrodite, the goddess of love, as part of her entourage. Come on, they were Aphrodite's squad; If Aphrodite was the queen of Olympic glamour, the Three Graces were her partying bridesmaids.

With such a cool role, it's no surprise that artists throughout the ages have become a little obsessed with these muses. Painters, sculptors... from Antiquity to the twenty-first century, the Three Graces appear again and again. Of course, always naked, because the official uniform of the Cárites is complete nudity (very practical, they saved on wardrobe). Being goddesses of ideal beauty, artists took the opportunity to show "perfect" female anatomy without anyone protesting. "Don't worry, this is classical art," they would say.

The original sculpture of The Three Graces is older than Methuselah. In fact, the version on display at the Louvre Museum in Paris is actually a Roman copy from the second century AD of an earlier Greek original (from the second century BC). In other words, an old remake. To make matters worse, when it was brought to light a few centuries ago, it was in pieces (without heads or arms). In 1609, an Italian sculptor named Nicolas Cordier restored it, carving away the missing parts and leaving it nickel-plated. So the Louvre's Three Graces are half classical, half repaired in full Baroque. Not bad for two thousand year old ladies!

Over time, many artists captured these goddesses in their own way. In the Baroque, for example, Rubens painted them (the painting is in the Prado Museum) in a more plump and voluptuous style. In Neoclassicism, the sculptor Antonio Canova made a marble version in 1817, so celebrated that it is also exhibited today in large museums. Each artist with his vision, but the Three Graces always present.

And so we arrive at Parque Europa, where these three eternal muses have found a new stage to show off. The replica we have here of The Three Graces is life-size (each figure is just over a meter high). They are strategically placed at one of the main entrances, as if to say: "Welcome, mortal, to this walk through art history... have a good time!" And hey, they do their job: more than one visitor is left speechless. Some approach with academic curiosity, others with that "hehe, they're naked" smile. The important thing is that here looking is not only allowed, but recommended: to contemplate the harmony of its forms is to appreciate the classical ideal of beauty in person.

In addition, having the Three Graces at the door certainly gives a special touch to the park. No bland signs: three classic sculptures welcome you here, and with them, symbolically, beauty, joy and generosity welcome you. What better omen for your visit? So, if you come with friends or family, you can take the opportunity to share some curiosity that you learned today (for example: "those statues are a copy of a work from the Louvre, they represent the goddesses of the festival in Greek mythology, take it!"). You will remain an expert guide, even if it is the horny version that gave you the information.

In short, our Three Graces are luxurious hostesses: always here, smiling stoically and reminding us that art does not have to be boring.


