
"Look at it, look at it, look at it, the Puerta de Alcalá." No, it is not the one from Alcalá de Henares, it is the well-known one from Madrid, now also planted in Parque Europa so that there is no shortage of a classic made in Spain. This traditional triumphal arch was inaugurated in 1778 by King Charles the Third, who was eager to leave Madrid nickelodeon. In the past, the road from the city of Alcalá entered through this gate (hence the name), and it was like the elegant porch to the capital. Today it is a roundabout with crazy traffic around, but it is still so regal.

What's special about it? Well, it is older than the Arc de Triomphe in Paris and most famous European arches. Charles III said: "I want a monumental door, but you make it pretty for me, eh" and commissioned the work to Francesco Sabatini (his trusted Italian architect). A neoclassical arch with five openings (five holes) emerged, in gray granite from the mountains, with its sculptures of Fame, Génio and the child on top, shields, military decorations... Come on, elegant.

The original Puerta de Alcalá has seen everything: Napoleonic troops entering in 1808, republics, dictatorships, football celebrations with people climbing on its ledges (very bad, don't do that), and they even dressed it in the sun and moon in an artistic mapping a few years ago. She is a muse of songs (thanks Ana Belén and Víctor Manuel for sticking your chorus in our brains). And it is a reference point: you are "at the Puerta de Alcalá" and you know that it is a plan to walk through the Retiro next door.

In Parque Europa I suppose they have replicated its main façade (which has a trick!: the two sides of the door are not the same, look for it if you can go around it). Maybe not life size, but enough to impress you. You can take a photo singing "There it is, there it is, watching the time go by...". The only thing missing will be the cars honking around, but it's better not to, so you can cross without risking anything like in Madrid.

Nice fact: when it was inaugurated in the 18th century, people were surprised that it didn't have wooden doors, it was a "hollow" arch. But it was more of a symbol than a practical gate. And in fact, of the old doors of Madrid it is one of the few that still stands, because the others were torn down in the 19th century. So it is a living relic.

Here in the park, more than functional it is decorative, obviously it does not separate anything, you do not need a passport to cross it (it would be necessary!). You can use it as a frame for your photos: you in the middle of the arch with a "I'm Cibeles" face (well, Cibeles is close to the original). Or play the Roman emperor entering triumphant: you put on an imaginary toga and say, "veni, vidi, vinci."

Don't be surprised if a visiting Madrid resident says: "Man, we really have this in my neighborhood and it's bigger!" Leave it, gatafol pride. You enjoy this Puerta de Alcalá two point zero, more accessible and without pollution around. And put the song on your mental Spotify, you probably already have it humming. After all, few doors can boast of being a pop celebrity.

So go ahead and walk through the door to the next attraction. Maybe you say "goodbye" when you leave it, as if you were leaving Madrid. Don't worry, you still have one foot in Torrejón. Puerta de Alcalá, a little piece of the capital in miniature, watching you closely so that you continue having a great time. There it is.
