
Here it is, in a reduced but equally attractive version, the famous Eiffel Tower. That piece of iron tower that nineteenth-century Parisians first hated ("a stud of rusty metal in the middle of our beautiful city, mon Dieu!") and then loved to the point of obsession. Built in 1889 for the Paris World's Fair, the idea was that it would be temporary, twenty years old and ready for scrapping. Ha. More than one hundred and thirty years later, it still stands in Paris, and in Torrejón we have our own Eiffelito, not to be outdone.

The original measures a whopping three hundred meters high (324 meters with an antenna, which otherwise the TV won't catch well), which made it the tallest structure in the world at its time. In the Europa Park it doesn't reach that much (let's not freak out, otherwise it can be seen from Albacete), but it is still impressive. It was designed by engineer Gustave Eiffel, who, curiously, also had a hand in the Statue of Liberty. This man had a fetish for giant metal structures, clearly.

When it was inaugurated, many Parisian artists criticized it to the extreme. Yes, "iron monster", yes, "industrial skeleton", a group of writers signed a very indignant letter. Today those same people would take selfies downstairs saying "Paris, je t'aime." Ironies of life. There were also those who went up to do the goat: in 1923 a certain Pierre Labric went down one of the legs on a bicycle (yes, just like that), and there have been skydivers, climbers... come on, the dream of any risk-taking YouTuber.

In our park you won't be able to do those crazy things (don't even try, you punk!), but you will be able to admire the lattice structure, that beautiful geometric framework that also withstands gales that are a pleasure. Because the original Eiffel Tower weighs about seven thousand three hundred tons of pure wrought iron, masterfully designed for the wind to pass through. Here the copy weighs less, obviously, but we also don't need to anchor it against hurricanes, as in Torrejón the weather is more pleasant.

What difference does the scale make? You stand at his feet and mentally hum "La vie en rose." Or, if you're older, the one about "Who is it, who is it? The Eiffel Tower, the Eiffel Tower..." by Enrique and Ana (okay, you might not get this boomer reference). The case: romanticism in singing. This tower is the symbol of love, the scene of thousands of marriage proposals. If you see someone kneel, it's not that they tripped: they might be proposing with the replica, which counts just the same for Instagram.

So, dear visitor, enjoy our pocket Eiffel Tower. Climb the stairs if there are any (in Paris there are one thousand six hundred and sixty-five steps, can you imagine counting here?) or just observe. At night, the original shines with little lights. Here at Parque Europa, it may not blink every hour, but it will shine in your memories because you will have saved the flight to France. Ohlala, Paris next to Madrid! The only thing missing is the croissant.


