
Look, Don Quixote would go crazy here! Ok, we're not in La Mancha, but these Dutch Windmills in Kinderdijk bring all the vibe of the Dutch polders to Europa Park. What is Kinderdijk? A small town in Holland where there are nineteen windmills placed in a row, built back in 1738 to 1740 to keep the lowlands dry. Basically, the Dutch said: "The water is not going to flood our fields, we will put mills to work pumping water." And it worked. So much so that today it is a World Heritage Site and appears on all the postcards with tulips and happy cows.

Dutch windmills do not grind flour, plot twist. They serve as giant water pumps, moved by the force of the wind, to drain the canals and send the excess water to the rivers. Imagine a giant fan but instead of air it moves water. Eighteenth century engineering, like, the beach bar is flooding, put a windmill. And what did they put in: in Kinderdijk they set up nineteen, in opposite rows along the dikes, forming a flat fairy-tale landscape.

Each mill has its miller living inside with his family (18th century version: now they are more for tourism). When the good wind blew, it pulled, turned the blades and pumped. If not, then wait and pray to Saint Aeolus. Dutch windmills have that iconic design with a rotating hood, to orient the blades according to the direction of the wind – not a single breath of fresh air is wasted here.

In Parque Europa we won't have nineteen (they wouldn't fit, man), but if there is one or a few you already evoke the image. You can imagine a man with wooden clogs going out to move the blades or to pick up the absent-minded ducks from the canal. And in the background, a green field with cows... well, you can imagine that, because next to it is the current attraction, but you focus.

Did you know that a windmill of this type could pump up to sixty thousand liters of water per minute with good wind? (That's a nerdy fact you throw out to impress, even though you have no idea how many pools it fills.) The important thing: thanks to these mills, half of Holland is not under water. Without exaggeration. They are anonymous heroes of wood and stone.

In the horny version: they are like the largest ceiling fans in the world, and if you turn them on too much, they take off like a helicopter. Don't try it at home. And for the children: "look, good giants who drink water." For the older ones: romantic postcard with your partner, a windmill always looks bucolic. All that's missing is some Gouda cheese and some tulips to complete the pack.

So take a photo holding the mill shovel Don Quixote style but in a peaceful way. Or run like Sancho before he gives you an imaginary slap. Enjoy this piece of rural Holland in miniature, and be thankful that it doesn't rain as much here as it does there. Of course, if it's windy that day, hold on to your cap... the Kinderdijk windmills have arrived to remind us that in the union of tradition and ingenuity there is strength (and never better said, the power of the wind).
