
Who would have thought that a giant atom would be the most famous monument in Brussels? Well there you have it: the Atomium. It's as if a mad Belgian scientist had thought of enlarging an iron crystal one hundred and sixty-five billion times and planting it in the middle of the '58 Exposition. Nine silver balls the size of buses held together by pipes, that's it. It is one hundred and two meters tall – like a thirty-story building – and shines as if it had fallen from a retro-futuristic spaceship.

This "molecular lollipop" was built in 1958 to impress the world at the Brussels World's Fair. In the midst of the atomic fever of the 1950s, Belgium wanted to show off its engineering and scientific progress, saying: "Look what (stainless steel) balls we have." And boy did they succeed. At first the people of Brussels would be like "but what is this, the set for The Jetsons?", but over time they grew fond of it. Today the Atomium is to Brussels what the Eiffel Tower is to Paris: an icon that many initially criticized, and now the fact that the photo is not taken is dull.

Within these spheres there are exhibitions, futuristic rooms and even a panoramic restaurant in the sphere at the top. Imagine dining in a ball a hundred meters high with views of Brussels... Very romantic, as long as you don't end up at the next table with a group of tourists with children running through the tubes (yes, there are escalators inside the tubes, like a scientific roller coaster).

The beauty of the Atomium is that it combines the absurd with the epic: it is absurd because, let's face it, it looks like the toy of an alien child who left his chemistry set thrown away; and it is epic because it represents the optimism of a time that believed that atomic energy was going to give us flying cars and vacations on the Moon. Spoiler: it wasn't that big of a deal, but at least we were left with this cool monument.

When you visit the Atomium in Parque Europa, don't forget to make the joke "Honey, I shrunk the kids" or "Look, I've gotten inside an atom." Geek scientist humor, you know. And appreciate the reflections in the spheres: with a little luck, you look more handsome than in the elevator mirror at home. Of course, in the Europa Park the scale is somewhat more modest than the original in Brussels (you are not going to climb a hundred meters, don't worry), but hey, advantage: without tourist queues or having to fly to Belgium. Science, history and a touch of kitsch united in the same monument. The Atomium: where chemistry becomes architecture and on top of that it makes you smile.
