
Look what a curious thing! This large silver structure is called Atomium. It comes from Brussels, which is the capital of Belgium. Do you know what it looks like? It looks like a giant atom. An atom is a very small part of everything that exists, so small that we cannot see it! But here at the Atomium they have made it huge for us to imagine.

The original Atomium was built in 1958 for a world exhibition, like a very large fair where countries show off their inventions. The design is like a model of an iron molecule enlarged billions of times. That's why it has those balls (actually representing iron atoms) joined by tubes (which would be like bonds). It's as if we were inside a piece of metal increased to the size of a building!

In total it has nine large spheres. In the real Atomium, those spheres are rooms: some have exhibitions, another is even a restaurant where you can eat while watching the entire city from above. The dials are lined with stainless steel, which is why they shine. And how do you go from one sphere to another? Well, inside the tubes there are escalators and an elevator. Imagine climbing inside a tube until you reach a giant ball! Sounds like a playground, right?

The Atomium in Brussels is very tall: it measures one hundred and two meters, more or less like a thirty-story building. What a giant! From above you can see the entire city. Here, in Parque Europa, our replica is not that tall (it doesn't reach the clouds, of course), but it gives us a perfect idea of ​​what it is like. Surely you will be struck by how its silver balls reflect the light, you can almost see yourself as in a fun mirror.

Why is it called Atomium? It is a mixture of words: atom + aluminum (aluminum in English), because originally the spheres were covered in aluminum. Although they are now made of steel, the name stayed that way. In Spanish we say "the Atomium".

Boys and girls like you usually like this monument because it looks like something out of a space movie. You can imagine that it is a ship from another planet or a giant sleeping robot. Imagination flies! But you can also learn that it is inspired by science: by what atoms are like on the inside.

If you visit the Atomium here in the park, touch the columns (they are solid, there is nothing fake) and think that in the real Atomium people walk along those columns inside. Wow! It's like a futuristic anthill.

In short: Atomium is a monument that teaches us the wonder of science and engineering. And it's also fun to watch because it looks like something out of a science fiction story. I'm sure you won't forget it! Now you can tell your friends that you saw a giant atom in Torrejón. Doesn't that sound incredible?
