
Silence, the show begins! Or rather, thunder, imaginary applause! You are in front of a classic Greek Theater, one of those where Sophocles presented his premieres and people sat on stone up to 40º in the shade but happy in life to see bloody tragedies. In Parque Europa they have recreated a Hellenic theater, probably inspired by that of Epidaurus or that of Dionysus in Athens.

Greek theaters were masterpieces of engineering and sociability: built on the side of a hill, with semicircular stands (la cavea) forming a fan around the orchestra (circular space below where the choir sang) and the stage (skene). What did they get? Amazing acoustics. In Epidaurus (fourth century BC) they say that you can hear a coin fall in the center from the top of the stands, and it has capacity for about fourteen thousand people without a microphone, take it now! Now that's sound technology, and without Bluetooth.

I don't think the one in Parque Europa has fourteen thousand (it could hold fourteen people sitting, hehe), but it captures the idea: stepped stone seats, semicircular shape open to the sky. Ideal for you to sit and say: "Oh Zeus, have mercy on me!" dramatizing to the fullest, while your friend from below lets out monologues. They can play "Medea's pot" – well, maybe it's not a plan in public. But you can improvise some theater.

Greek tragedy was heavy: murders, revenge, gods trolling humans... and comedy was also invented by them, with even dirty jokes. So if you say something funny on stage, you are honoring Aristophanes. Please someone get up and shout "Leonidas!" or recite the intro to the 1930s movie: "This is Sparta!" (although the theaters were from before, but meh).

Did you know that the Greeks wore masks in the theater? One with a sad face for tragedy, another smiling for comedy. And that's where today's theater icons come from. Well, in this little theater you can imagine them. Perhaps they have decorated with fake columns or polystyrene ruins to set the scene. Have the kids run around the "orchestra" singing "Baby Shark" – oh, cultural sacrilege – or better yet, teach them to say "Hypocrite," which was what they called the actors (no bad connotation, it just meant "performer").

The point is that this Greek Theater transports you to Ancient Greece without teleportation. You close your eyes and you almost see the philosopher Plato taking a nap in the stands (because surely there was some grandfather snoring in the middle of the climax of Oedipus the King, an ancient tradition). Open your eyes and you are in Madrid, but with a little piece of Athens at your feet.

For the photo: go to the top of the stands and ask someone to speak from below. This way you will be amazed at how it sounds (if they have done it well, even in a model the acoustics work a little). You can also take a panoramic photo: you can see the entire semicircle, very cool in your album "Eurotrip without leaving home."

And if you want to be original, take a pair of white sheets as a toga, dress up the family and put on "Julius Caesar" (okay, it's Roman, but the theater is Greek, let's not get purist). Some cries of "Clytemnestraaa!" and you have the other visitors thinking that you have had sunstroke.

The Greek Theater, that place where dramaturgy was born and where today you can spend a little time in the fresh air. Because let's face it, sitting on stone revives anyone's bottom. A round of applause to the ancient Greeks for this invention… and let the show continue at Parque Europa!
