
Get ready to sail the seas of imagination with the Europa Park Viking Ship. Yes, that imposing longship with a dragon's head on the bow, like something out of a movie about muscular Vikings. The Vikings were the authentic heavy metal of the Middle Ages: bearded, with helmets (without horns, by the way, the horns thing is a myth of the opera) and fond of visiting unannounced the European coasts of the ninth century... and when I say visit, I mean getting involved in looting and then leaving rowing at full speed.

The Viking ship you see here is a reproduction of those legendary "longships": long, narrow, fast ships, made of wood, designed to slide through shallow waters and be able to dock at any beach to unload ~gifts~ axes. They had an oar and a sail, that is, if there was no wind, they would hit the biceps; and if there was wind, to deploy that square sail and let yourself go, as rowing is tiring. They were so versatile that they were used both to explore new worlds (they reached America before Columbus, true story) and to go shopping armed in coastal monasteries – visionaries of shopping without paying taxes.

Can you imagine fifty burly guys sitting on benches, rowing in coordination to the shout of a foreman? Well, that was the kind of "spinning" that was popular on board. And they decorated the ship with shields on the sides and a dragon-shaped figurehead to scare enemies. Terror Marketing, Century Nine Edition. Of course, afterwards they still stopped to trade peacefully; that the Vikings also had a merchant heart. In fact, they had wider cargo ships called knarr, but of course, those don't appear in How to Train Your Dragon because they are less glamorous.

The Parque Europa Viking Ship will make you feel like a Ragnar Lodbrok of life, without having to endure the cold of Norway or the seasickness of the North Sea. You can explain to your brother-in-law that these ships allowed the Norse to found colonies, exchange products and genes across half the continent. But above all, you can get on (can you get on? Look closely) and shout "For Thor!" while you pose for the photo.

Of course, then don't try to raid the churrería in the park, times have changed and security can come. Just imagine the epic battles and voyages: fjords, storms, Odin protecting you... and you with your selfie stick on the bow. Skål! for those bearded sailors whose legacy reaches a park in Torrejón. Isn't it ironic? From devastating Europe to decorating a theme park… Modern life, friends.
