
Go ahead and make a wish, because before you is the Fontana di Trevi, the most famous fountain in Rome (and Europa Park, of course). If you were expecting Anita Ekberg splashing around in La Dolce Vita, sorry: there's no diva bathing today, but the fountain is still amazing. Although this is a theme park version, the original in Rome is a monumental baroque fountain completed in 1762 by the architect Nicola Salvi, with sculptors who left their chisels there and probably their backs.

Imagine an entire palace wall turned into a waterfall: that's Trevi. Neptune, the god of the sea, in the center surfing a shell pulled by tritons and sea horses, surrounded by allegories of Abundance and Health. Come on, a mythological comic in marble. The water falls with gusto, recycling the ancient Aqua Virgo aqueduct from Roman times – the Romans knew about plumbing, not like your neighbor on the fifth floor.

Tradition dictates that you toss a coin backwards, with your right hand on your left shoulder, to ensure that you will return to Rome. Will it work? Well, I don't know about Rome, but it works great for the cleaning department: thousands of euros in coins are collected every year from the fountain (the real one) and they allocate them to charity. Look how great, you make a wish and in the process you do philanthropy without realizing it. Two wishes in one.

In the Parque Europa version, you can simulate the experience without taking a flight or dealing with two hundred crowded tourists. Of course, be good and don't get into the fountain, because here we don't want to reincarnate Fellini or La Benemérita by throwing you out of the water. Better look for a loose coin (a cent will do? Let's try...) and throw it thinking about something cool: "I want to pass the exams", "I want Atleti to win the Champions League", in short, to the consumer's liking.

Why is it so popular? Because it is beautiful and cinematic. You see it and think of stracciatella ice cream and pizza al taglio, riding a vespa through Rome... It is a little piece of dolce vita transplanted to Torrejón. It's okay that ours is not so mammoth, but close your eyes and imagine the murmur of the water and the accordion playing "Arrivederci Roma". Magic!

And a piece of advice: if you go with children, keep an eye on them, lest they start playing Moses separating the waters inside the fountain. Remember: coin yes, plunge no. Trevi Fountain, the fountain of wishes, now at your fingertips (and your wallet). Make a wish, go ahead, it's free! (Well, for the penny you throw away).
