
Get ready for the pissiest and most shameless monument in Europe: the Manneken Pis. Yes, that famous bronze boy peeing in a fountain, the pride of Brussels. Because hey, Belgians will be shy about some things, but when it comes to scatological humor they are centuries ahead. This statue dates back to 1619, the work of the sculptor Jérôme Duquesnoy the Elder, and measures just sixty-one centimeters. Smaller than a well-eaten baby! But with an attitude... let's say fluid.

Legend says that the little boy saved the city by putting out the fuse of a bomb with his trickle or something like that. Other dirtier versions tell stories of a lost child found like this, getting better. Be that as it may, the brat is a symbol of Brussels and has a wardrobe that not even Lady Gaga: they dress him up in regional costumes, as Santa Claus, as a soccer player... He has more than nine hundred little suits in his collection. To piss yourself laughing! (easy joke, I know).

In Parque Europa we have him reproducing his water feat in a harmless version: recycled water and without danger of fines for exhibitionism, which is art, okay? Don't even think about imitating him after drinking a lot of beer at the park's beach bar, because doing so would be a crime. He has an artistic patent. Also, the original is connected to a fountain, don't think it's animatronic or anything - then someone asks: "And where does the child's water come from? Do they give him Aquarius?" No, buddy, it's classic Belgian plumbing.

The good thing about Manneken Pis is that it throws people off. You expect a serious, equestrian monument, a king, a hero... and you find a little boy urinating so hot. Surreal Belgium level. The Japanese hallucinate, the Americans blush, we Spaniards make jokes, in short, each culture does its own thing. But everyone ends up taking a photo of him, because he is adorable in his cheekiness.

Here in Torrejón, having him close, you can appreciate the details: the little boy's "aah, how nice" face, the pose dominating the world by urinating on it. It's quite a metaphor: small things can be great icons. This pissed dwarf has survived wars (the people of Brussels hid him in the Second World War so they wouldn't melt him down), robberies (a count shamed him in the 18th century, what a shame, stealing a pissing child) and he always returns to his corner to do his thing.

If you come with little ones, they will love it or they will be shocked: "Is that baby peeing in public?" – "Yes, son, it is European art, take note." And if you come without kids, you might be the one who laughs with a silly giggle. Manneken Pis has that universal effect: it reminds us that, in the end, we are all humans with the same needs, but some elevate them to a tourist category.

So now you know, take a look, laugh for a while and follow along. And if you hear water running and you feel like it... I think the park bathrooms are ahead. Manneken Pis, the only monument that shows that pissing also makes history.
